Date    02 Jul 2012
Literature Review: MRI Sengmentation: Methods And Applications
                   L.P. Clarke et al.
                   Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Vol 13, No 3, pp. 343-368, 1995
                   
Workflow of MRI Segmentation:
    1. Preprocessing
    2. Feature Extraction
    3. Segmentation
    4. Classification and description
    
Preprocessing:
    Used to suppress uncertainties such as: random image noise, spectral leakage, Gibb's artifact, partial volume effects, MR signal intensity variation
    1. Noise suppression and contrast enhancement
	Low Pass Filtering
	    Lead sot a loss of fine details and clear edges
	Combination Analysis
	    Visual improvement without aid in segmentation
	Adaptive filtering
	    Bayesian image restoration (?)
	    Wavelet Analysis
	    Anisotropic Filtering
    2. RF Nonuniformity
	Correction Matrix
	    The methods assumes RF Penetration of phantom and phantom coil used is the same as that of the image being scanned, which contradicts reality.
	Digital Filtering
	    The construction premise, which assumes that the true image is comprised of smooth background with high frequency detail superimposed is not totally correct.
	Surface Fitting
	Expectation-Maximizaion
	    Indication of enhancement of white/grey matter segmentation
	
Feature Extraction

    1. Pixel Intensity Based Features
    	Data may be obtained from a single image, a volume data set or a multispectral data set.
    2. Calculated Pixel Intensity Based Features
        Advantages
        Disadvantates
            Increased noise generated from non-linear calculations limits the application to MRI tissue classification
            The segmentation is unstable
        Applications
            Classfication of tissues in operator-defined regions
	* May develop with the introduction of more efficient techniques for MR segmentation such as low flip angle volume imaging methods (?) with short imaging times.
    3. Edges Based Features
	Advantages
		More effective as MR Images are nonuniform, and hence a global threshold cannot segment MRI data.
	Disadvantages
		It is unlikely that methods based on edge detection will allow reliable segmentation
	Specific techniques used:
		Marr-Hildreth operator (?)
		Canny Edge detector (?)
    4. Texutre Based Features
	Characteristics
	    Mainly applied for classification rather than delineation
	    Needs a large number of pixels for classification

Single Image Segmentation
	Such segmentation methods provide useful information, but is limited to relatively simple structures.
    1. Threshold-based selection methods
	The use of a global threshold for segmentation.
	However, the determination of a threshold is challenging.
	Largely unsuccessful due to:
	    1. Varibility of anatomy and MR data
	    2. Image artifacts
    2. Edge-based segmentation methods
	Disadvantages:
	    Incorrect detection of edges
	    Over / Under segmentation
	    Variability of threshold selection in the edge image
	Specific Methods Discussed:
	    1. Combination of Edge Detection and Morphological Filtering
		Able to generate satisfactory 3D displays, but labeling and editing are required.
	    2. Boundary tracing
		Successful global segmentation is possible for noisy brain sections and vague boundaries
		A good initial guess is required
		Application restricted to large well defined structures.
		Not to distinguish individual tissue types.
    3. Seed-growing segmentation methods
        Commercially available in ANALYZE by Mayo Foundation and Allegro Systems by ISG Technologies
	Require manually selected seed and threshold
	Used as a post processing step for noise reduction
	Only well-defined regions can be robustly identified.

Multispectral Segmentation
	The methods used are prevalently pattern recognition, but validation of images remain a problem.
    Supervised methods
	Parametric pattern recognition methods
	    Only effective when feature distributions for the different classes are well-known
	Nonparametric pattern recognition methods
	    Able to produce more reproducible and more accurate results.
	Manual feature space segmentation methods
	    
    Unsupervised methods (clustering)
	Disadvantages:
	    Do not necessarily give meaningful segmentations
	    Long computation times
	Advantages:
	    Reproducible
	Attmepts to overcome the disadvantages:
	    Validity Guided reclustering algorithm
	    Semi-supervised fuzzy c-means
Classification and Description
    Manual Classification
    Region Classification using texture parameters
	User interaction needed to correct errors
    Rule Based Classification
	Rules can be based on intensities of regions and shape
    Automatic labeling can correct errors of segmentation

Validation
    MRI Contrast Methods
	MR contrast information with SE T1-weighted images for tumor volume or size estimations are widely used.
	May not be the optimum method due to the absence of ground-truth determinations.
    Validation using phantoms
	Phantoms do not exhibit the complexity of human tissues
	RF loading of phantom is different from that of human tissues
	Limited coincidence in the reliability of segmentation methods
    Validation using MRI Simulations
	Not yet used in the validation of MRI Segmentation when the paper was published, but is promising
    Reproducibility Studies
    Manual labeling of MRI

Evaluation of Material
    1. The paper provides a comprehensive overview of different segmentation methods that can be used and the preprocessing steps and methods of validity check available. 
    2. The paper is quite old as it was published in 1995, yet the general methods should remain the same despite the evolution in specific algorithms.
    3. The paper primarily focuses the diagnosis of tumor in human brain when citing examples, which is a very narrow aspect of the application of MR images. Therefore, more supplementary information is needed when the reliability of methods mentioned is used in other applications.