Date	21 July 2012
Literature Review:	Medical Image Processing Overview
			Homgmei Zhu, Uiversity of Calgary
http://www.fields.utoronto.ca/programs/scientific/03-04/mathmedicine/notes/ZHU_notes.pdf

Three common parameters of an MRI image:
	T1	Time constant characterizing the return of magnetization vector along the z-axis (dependent on B0)
	T2	Time constant characterizing the decay of the transverse component (independent of B0)
	Proton density

	* Images can be further processed to produce new maps regarding water diffusion, blood flow, etc.

Common artifacts in MR Image
	Gibbs Ringing Artifacts:
		Result of truncating the Fourier spectrum due to the finite sampling or missing of high frequency data
		spurious ringing around sharp edges.
	Aliasing Artifacts:
		Occurs when sampling rate is less than the Nyquist rate (?)
		Replications of object overlap.
		Can be reduced by using non-uniform sampling
	Motion Artifacts:
		Due to the motion of the object during data acquisition
		Most prominent when sampling blood flow, respiratory motion, cardiac motion and gross movements of the body.
		Image blurring & Ghost

Medical Image Processing
	Development of problem-specific approaches
	Purposes:	Selective visualization and further analysis by enhancing images
	Two areas of research:	general applicable theory and specific applications

Image Segmentation
	A labeling problem: partitioning of an image to regions that are meaningful for a specific task
	Classification:
		Features: pixel intensity, edge information, texture
		Techniques: 
			Structural methods: methods based on spatial properties of the image
			Statistical methods: methods based probability values of pixels determined based on the intensity distribution of the image.



Thoughts:

1. Due to the existence of various artifacts, the algorithms developed should be able to tolerate the less than perfect conditions of the images. Therefore, images with these artifacts should be used to evaluate the accuracy of the MR Images.

2. Due to the inherent multi-parametric nature of MR Images, the acquisition of multi-specturl images should be relatively simple, therefore I hypothesize that more effective algorithms would utilize these images. Yet processing multiple images significantly increases the amount of computation needed and leads to a longer processing time.
